.TH restmbmaster 8 "26 December 2019" "restmbmaster" "Rest API Modbus master"
.SH NAME
restmbmaster \(em Rest API gateway to Modbus slaves
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restmbmaster
.BI \-c " CONNECT_URI"
.BI \-p " PORT"
.br
.B restmbmaster
.BI \-f " FILE"
.br
.B restmbmaster
.BR  \-h | \-v
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
restmbmaster is a simple daemon that allows user to access Modbus slaves
over Rest API. The slaves could be either connected over
serial line (Modbus RTU protocol), or over TCP (Modbus TCP protocol).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print help text to console and exit.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-version"
Print version information to console and exit.
.TP
.B "\-g, \-\-debug"
Turns on debugging messages. Repeating the option increases verbosity.
.TP
.BI "\-c " CONNECT_URI ", \-\-connect " CONNECT_URI
Specifies the target Modbus bus to connect to. Supported formats:
.RS 7
.PP
.BR "tcp://HOSTNAME[:PORT]"
.RS 7
.PP
Example:
.BR "tcp://test.abc:1000"
.PP
Default PORT:
.BR "502"
.RE
.PP
.BR "rtu:DEVICEPATH[?baud=BAUDRATE]"
.RS 7
.PP
Example:
.BR "rtu:/dev/ttyS0?baud=9600"
.PP
Default BAUDRATE:
.BR "115200"
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-p " PORT ", \-\-port " PORT
Specifies TCP port on which the webserver is listening and where the Rest API is exposed.
.TP
.BI "\-f " FILE ", \-\-config " FILE
Load the specified configuration file.
.SH REST API
.TP
The API is quite simple. Only "GET" (read) and "PUT" (write) methods are supported. The "Content-Type" is always "text/plain" for both "GET" and "PUT". The path in the URL has following format:
.PP
.B "http://HOSTNAME:PORT/slaves/SLAVE_ADDRESS/OBJECT_FAMILY/OBJECT_ADDRESS[?count=OBJECT_COUNT]"
.RS 7
.PP
.BR "SLAVE_ADDRESS "\(em
Address of the slave to communitate with, number in range from 0 to 255.
.PP
.BR "OBJECT_FAMILY "\(em
Is a string to identify the family of the objects. It is one of:
.PP
.RS 7
.BR "coils "\(em
To access coils (RW).
.BR
.PP
.BR "discrete-inputs "\(em
To access discrete inputs (RO).
.BR
.PP
.BR "input-registers "\(em
To access input registers (RO).
.BR
.PP
.BR "holding-registers "\(em
To access holding registers (RW).
.BR
.RE
.PP
.BR "OBJECT_ADDRESS "\(em
Address of the object according to the family. It is an integer number, starting from 0.
.PP
.BR "OBJECT_COUNT "\(em
Number of objects to read or write, starting at OBJECT_ADDRESS. It is an integer number, starting from 0. If not specified, defaults to 1.
.RE
.PP
The content being returned by "GET" method is a value of the object as a plain integer number in the text. If values of multiple objects are requested, they are separated by a single space. Same format applies for the "PUT" method.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To run connecting to Modbus TCP:
.PP
.nf
$ restmbmaster -c tcp://test.abc:1000 -p 8080
.fi
.PP
To run connecting to Modbus RTU:
.PP
.nf
$ restmbmaster -c rtu:/dev/ttyS0?baud=9600 -p 8080
.fi
.PP
To run according to the configuration from file:
.PP
.nf
$ restmbmaster -f myconfig.conf
.PP
When restmbmaster is running, one can use for example curl to communicate with Modbus slaves.
In the following example, slave with address 55 is queried for the value of input register with address 10:
.PP
.nf
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/slaves/55/input-registers/10
34
.fi
.PP
It is possible to query multiple registers (in sequence) at once:
.PP
.nf
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/slaves/55/input-registers/10?count=4
34 78 234 2
.fi
.PP
To write new value (434) to holding register 20 the "PUT" method has to be used:
.PP
.nf
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/slaves/55/holding-registers/20 -d "434" -H "Content-Type: text/plain" -X PUT
.fi
.PP
It is also possible to write to a sequence of registers (20-26):
.PP
.nf
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/slaves/55/holding-registers/20 -d "434 48 32 92 1 0 3" -H "Content-Type: text/plain" -X PUT
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR restmbmaster.conf (5),
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Jiri Pirko is the original author and current maintainer of restmbmaster.
